doc/nonroot.md, before:

# nonroot

If you want to use Gowebdav with Docker under a non-root user, you can follow these steps.

## Steps

Using Docker Compose as an example, let's say you want to share `./data/dir1` and `./data/dir2` directories. First, prepare a `docker-compose.yml` file:

```yaml
services:
  go_webdav:
    image: 117503445/go_webdav
    restart: unless-stopped
    volumes:
      - ./data:/home/nonroot
    environment:
      - "dav=/dir1,/home/nonroot/dir1,null,null,false;/dir2,/home/nonroot/dir2,null,null,false"
    ports:
      - "80:80"
    user: "nonroot" # Specify the user inside the container as nonroot
```

Next, create the directories and set the permissions to 777:

```bash
mkdir -p ./data/dir1 ./data/dir2
chmod 777 ./data/dir1 ./data/dir2
```

Finally, start the container:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

## Notes

`117503445/go_webdav` is based on [gcr.io/distroless/static-debian12](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/distroless). The `nonroot` user inside the image is a non-root user with a UID of 65532 and has write permissions to the `/home/nonroot` directory.

- If you do not create the `data` directory in advance, it will be automatically created when the container starts. However, this will be done by the Docker Daemon with root privileges, which may lead to permission issues.
- If you do not create the `dir1` and `dir2` directories in advance, they will be created by `GoWebdav` when the container starts. Since these directories will belong to the `nonroot` user, external regular users will not be able to write to them.
- If you do not set the permissions to 777 in advance, the `nonroot` user in `GoWebdav` will not be able to write to these directories.

In the scenarios described above, both inside and outside the container are regular users. If you only require the container to run as a regular user and the host to run as root, or vice versa, the setup might be simpler.

Commit message:

docs(nonroot): 更新非 root 用户下运行 Gowebdav 的文档说明
- 修改表述为更清晰的表达方式，如“wish to run”替代“want to use”
- 增加创建数据目录及获取 UID/GID 的命令示例
- 调整 docker-compose 配置示例，使用 `/data` 作为容器内挂载点
- 更新环境变量中 dav 路径配置与挂载路径一致
- 强调提前创建目录的重要性以避免权限问题
- 简化注意事项，聚焦于用户权限与目录所有权的核心问题

Signed-off-by: 117503445 <t117503445@gmail.com>

doc/nonroot.md, after:

# nonroot

If you wish to run Gowebdav in Docker under a non-root user environment, please follow the steps below.

## Steps

Taking Docker Compose as an example, suppose you want to share two directories: `./data/dir1` and `./data/dir2`. First, prepare your directories:

```bash
mkdir -p ./data  # This is just an example; you can create directories in any way you prefer
```

Next, obtain the UID and GID of the directory:

```bash
ls -nd ./data | awk '{ print $3":"$4 }'
```

Then, create a `docker-compose.yml` file:

```yaml
services:
  go_webdav:
    image: 117503445/go_webdav
    restart: unless-stopped
    volumes:
      - ./data:/data
    environment:
      - "dav=/dir1,/data/dir1,null,null,false;/dir2,/data/dir2,null,null,false"
    ports:
      - "80:80"
    user: "1000:1000"  # Replace with the correct UID and GID to ensure execution under the proper user
```

Finally, start the container:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

## Notes

Docker supports specifying a user via the `--user "UID:GID"` option, allowing you to run containers as a non-root user.  
However, you must create the `data` directory in advance to prevent the Docker daemon from creating it with root permissions, which could lead to permission issues.  
In the scenario above, both inside and outside the container use a regular (non-root) user. If you only require the container to run as a regular user while the host uses root (or vice versa), the setup might be simpler.
